Indexing repositories (#286)
overture-stack/maestro: README.md

![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-007ACC?style=for-the-badge&logo=typescript&logoColor=white)
[<img hspace="5" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/chat--with--developers-overture--slack-blue?style=for-the-badge">](http://slack.overture.bio)

## Documentation:

> Documentation is hosted on :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Documentation is hosted on:
```

- github pages: https://overture-stack.github.io/maestro/

> - read the docs: https://maestro-overture.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ (using mkdocs https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/intro/getting-started-with-mkdocs.html)

Reviewer: we're working on centralizing all docs in a same site we own and control (Mitchell's "Bridge")

```suggestion
- Overture docs: https://docs.overture.bio/docs/core-software/maestro/overview/
```

Author: thanks for remembering this. good catch!

## Introduction

> Maestro was created to enable genomic researchers to enhance their Overture SONG/Lyric by building indexes, elastic search by default, that makes searching Analyses and Studies much more powerful and easier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Maestro was created to enable genomic researchers to enhance their Overture SONG/Lyric by building indexes using Elasticsearch (by default), which makes searching Analyses and Studies much easier.
```

### Features:

- Supports indexing from multiple metadata repositories (SONG/Lyric).
- Multiple indexing requests: analysis, study, full repository.
- Event driven indexing.
  - Integration with SONG/Lyric to index published analysis and delete suppressed / unpublished analyses
- Ability to Exclude analysis based on different Ids: Study, Analysis, Donor, Sample Or file.
- Slack web hook integration

## Technologies & libraries:

> - Node.js v16.14 or greater

Reviewer: we'd better encourage using currently supported versions. i.e. v22+; v20 bare minimum.
https://nodejs.org/en/about/previous-releases

```suggestion
- Node.js v22 or greater.
```

Author: Updated 👍  tested and running V22 😉

- PNPM package manager
- Elasticsearch 7+
- Apache Kafka
- Testing libraries:
  - Mocha
  - Chai
  - Testcontainers

## Structure

The project is organized as a monorepo workspace, where each application and package is located in its own dedicated folder:

```
apps/
├─ server/
packages/
├─ common/
├─ indexer-client/
├─ maestro-provider/
├─ repository/

```

- **Maestro Server:** The main runnable Express Server. Exposes a set of HTTP API routes that serve as the interface between the Maestro provider and external systems.

- **Maestro Common:** Designed to centralize common utilities, reusable functions, and TypeScript type definitions.

> - **Maestro Indexer Client:** Abstracts communication with Elasticsearch clients, supporting both version 7 and version 8.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Maestro Indexer Client:** Abstracts communication with Elasticsearch clients, supporting both version 7 and 8.
```

- **Maestro Provider:** The core features and provider independent logic that is portable and contains the main indexing, rules, notifications logic as specified by the business features.

> - **Maestro Repository:** Designed to manage interactions with data source repositories. It serves as the central interface for retrieving data from various repositories, such as **Song** and **Lyric**, ensuring a streamlined and consistent approach to data access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Maestro Repository:** Designed to manage interactions with data source repositories. It serves as the central interface for retrieving data from various repositories, such as **SONG** and **Lyric**, ensuring a streamlined and consistent approach to data access.
```

# Dependencies:

To Successfully run Maestro (as is) you need the following services to be deployed and configure it to use them:

- [Elasticsearch](https://www.elastic.co/products/elasticsearch)
- [Apache Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org/)
- [SONG](https://github.com/overture-stack/SONG)
- [Lyric](https://github.com/overture-stack/lyric)

> You can check the sample docker compose files under `./apps/server/docker-compose-es7.dev.yml` for containerized versions of elasticsearch 7 & kafka.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can check the sample Docker compose files under `./apps/server/docker-compose-es7.dev.yml` for containerized versions of Elasticsearch 7 & Kafka.
```

For SONG please check the SONG github repo [here](https://github.com/overture-stack/SONG/tree/develop/dev) on how to run it with docker. Or you can run it as jar.

## How to:

- Swagger API access:
  - http://localhost:11235/api-docs

> > Note: if you don't/can't use the Makefile, look inside it for the shell commands and replicate them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: can't use `Make`? replicate the shell commands found within the Makefile.
```

- Compile: `make`
- Test: `make test`
- Run:
  - Source:
    - Development:
      1. `make docker-start-dev` starts the infrastructure containers

>          - kafka
>          - elastic search
>          - other helper tools if you want like kafka rest proxy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         - Kafka
         - Elasticsearch
         - other helper tools you may want, like a Kafka RESTful proxy
```
